Another generic problem that Spring Data aims to solve
is the paging and sorting of data.
Imagine our Java application wanted to read all of
the orders from an order table.
If we tried a naïve SELECT * FROM orders query,
it would work,
but would also result in the entire orders table being loaded into memory.
If the number of orders was in the order of millions,
then this could result in our app running out of memory and crashing,
not great.
This is why we introduce pagination and sorting into the equation.
Instead of querying all the resulting rows,
we would only query a slice or a page of them,
fixing the memory problem.
If we were using SQL, this would mean providing key words like LIMIT,
OFFSET, and possibly ORDER BY into the query,
introducing this constraint.
What's important to realize though is that this is actually an abstract problem.
Whatever the database, we're always going to be querying data,
and we're always going to need to make sure that the data we
return doesn't result in an out of memory error.
So pagination will be required wherever we use a graph,
document, relational, columnar, or any other type of database.
Okay, so let's take a look at paging and sorting in Spring Data.
Here is our findyByName derived query from earlier,
only it now has two extra arguments, Pageable and Sort.
The first thing to note is that when using the page and sort arguments,
the query is derived as usual.
So with or without these arguments, the same core findByName query is generated.
The pageable argument is pretty simple to create.
We can build a page request and implementation of Pageable,
passing in the page index and size of a page.
When our query is generated,
adding this parameter will add an offset and LIMIT keyword to it.
The sort argument is also simple.
In this example, we can create a sort by a column name,
in this case date of birth.
This will add an order by to the query.
And by default, we will get ascending order.
As well as using page and sort directly in derived queries,
you can also make use of the PagingAndSortingRepository.
This is a subclass of the CRUDRepository,
overloading the findAll method in the T times.
The first method overloads with the sort argument,
and the second overloads with the pageable argument.
It really is up to you when you make use of this
repository or whether you just add page and sort
arguments directly to your derived queries.
As a rule of thumb though, less code is always better.
So I'd recommend defaulting to use of the PagingAndSortingRepository and then creating additional methods on top of it when required.